# WA State Bar Complaint: Patricia Fulton (2016)

Owner: Elvis Nuno, MISJustice Alliance
Verification: Verified
Tags: Edmonds, Evidence, Official Complaint, WA Bar Complaint, Washington

## Bar Complaint: Patricia Fulton (Edmonds, WA - Case 5Z1231987)

To Whom it may Concern,
On December 15th, 2015, I retained Patricia Fulton as a defense attorney in a domestic violence related case in a event that occurred in Edmonds between an ex girlfriend, Danielle C. Chard (who suﬀers from very serious mental health issues), in which I maintain complete innocence of. During the event in question, no one was harmed, I simply attempted to defend myself, as not only did Ms. Chard physically accost me during the incident, but had a history of extremely erratic behavior, verbal abuse, and had been physically threatening to me in the past. Furthermore she has made numerous completely fictional (and quite seriously perjurious and slanderous) statements to both the Edmonds and Seattle police departments.
Before the discovery began in the Edmonds case there was first a matter of an Order of Protection that Ms. Chard filed against me, which contained many false accusations that I was incredibly concerned with.
Ms. Fulton explained to me that with the domestic violence case pending any judge would certainly sign oﬀ on the Order, and therefore advised me to not even attend the hearing regarding the Order. I maintained that while this may be the case, it was of paramount importance to me that I be able to appeal any such decision at a later point in which I could prove the accusations to be completely false. Ms. Fulton, understanding my desire to contest the Order at a later date continued to advise that I not attended the hearing. I followed said advice in not attending the hearing, after which I followed up with Ms. Fulton inquiring when I would be able to contest the Order. At that point she shared the information that, since I had not entered any defense in this matter, that it was impossible for me to ever appeal the decision. I voiced my complaint that her advice had deliberately misled me into a course of action that was directly contrary to my stated wishes. However Ms. Fulton continued to maintain she would have given the same advice to anyone under her counsel.
What followed for the duration of the time working with Ms. Fulton was her consistently incredibly
rude and dismissive behavior towards me, and an unwillingness to entertain the notion of my innocence. I was never clear exactly what was the content of the defense she was building for me, and was frustrated by her consistent unavailability, an unwillingness to provide for adequate time to address my concerns, and a complete failure in providing any solutions to the problems I faced. 
I attempted to put her in touch with my therapist and the only family member of Ms. Chard, both of whom had direct knowledge that at no point was I any threat or danger to Ms. Chard, and that my intentions stemmed from my legitimate concern regarding the state of her mental health. Ms. Fulton refused to interview this family member or Ms. Chard herself. While she did have at least some (very minimal) contact with my therapist regarding the situation, she was immediately dismissive and stated to me it was of no value that she reach out to anyone else who had direct knowledge of my attempts to contact Ms. Chard which ultimately lead to the incident in question.
The only step in building my defense was to receive a mental health evaluation from Associated Behavioral Health Center (henceforth referred to as ABHC), which ultimately resulted in them refusing to provide me with a full evaluation or provide any substantive reason in their decision.
Further still they have been unwilling to provide any records whatsoever regarding extensive multi-day testing and examination I voluntarily submitted to, and refused to provide me with a refund until I made it clear that my therapist and I would be submitting a detailed complaint to the Washington State Board of Health regarding their highly unprofessional and unethical behavior. It is of my opinion, evidenced by personal communications from both my therapist, and one of the psychiatrists at ABHC, that Ms. Fulton had made statements to ABHC designed to put my mental health in question prior to any examination taking place. After the fact, ABHC retrospectively communicated to me that in conversations with Ms. Fulton, they told her that it was highly unlikely they would be able to provide me with the evaluation I was seeking (neither of which information they disclosed to me prior to any examination). 

But the most egregious failure in her responsibility to due diligence occurred as the case further progressed.
I learned of several charges (with completely fictional stories and great many more clearly perjurious statements) out of Seattle. A brief aside concerning this second case, which is being tried in Seattle: with the exception of several text messages taken out of context (also submitted as evidence in the Edmonds trial), Ms. Chard has not produced any evidence supporting her claims in over nine months. Not only did Ms. Fulton fail to find these reports in her initial discovery; after learning of them, I asked her to obtain and provide me with copies of each report, which she promised to do, but utterly failed to follow through on.
These reports would have been absolutely vital in my defense, but as the contents of them remained secret from me, the case began to grow out of hand, and after being repeatedly taken into custody and faced with the certain choice of being taken to jail yet again (over a series of fallacious accusation made by Ms. Chard), and lacking any confidence that I would be provided an adequate defense I chose to plead out the case.
This is a choice, in retrospect, had the large volume of easily attainable and vitally important information been provided to me by Ms. Fulton, I would never have taken. Further still, as I have not yet been able to obtain a mental health evaluation, as per the terms of my plea agreement, I have been summoned to court in
Edmonds yet again to explain the situation. Ms. Fulton clearly stated that she would be providing the court with the letter from ABHC in an eﬀort to strike the hearing, showing that I have done everything in my power to follow through with my obligations. However after confirming with the public defender I have been assigned in Edmonds the court has not received any such letter. This puts my freedom in serious jeopardy, as I could be faced with up to a year in jail for failing to obtain said evaluation.
As I believe all of the above information would have been vital to not only building my defense but would have influenced my choices, I feel it is clear that Ms. Fulton has been completely negligent in upholding her responsibility to provide me with an adequate defense. I have attached for review the letter from ABHC and the police reports which Ms. Fulton failed to obtain. I can also provide extensive e-mails further verifying this information upon request.

[9.WA_State_Bar_Complaint_Patricia-Fulto_2016.pdf](WA%20State%20Bar%20Complaint%20Patricia%20Fulton%20(2016)/9.WA_State_Bar_Complaint_Patricia-Fulto_2016.pdf)